In Scripture, we find three distinct groups of people who exercise some form of leadership in the church: the congregation, consisting of all church members; elders, those men appointed to spiritual oversight in the church; and deacons, who serve the congregation in hands-on, practical ways. It is our understanding that these groups work in concert to lead, with the congregation vested with preeminent authority in major decisions (i.e., in matters of doctrine and discipline). Bound to no outside association, body, or organization, the congregation is in authority over itself under God.

In their role as overseers, the elders guide the church, particularly focusing on matters concerning teaching, preaching, and prayer. The deacons, pictured not as a second legislative body but as a group of able servants, assist the elders by facilitating ministry.

If you have any questions concerning Elders or other issues concerning Baptist Church Polity, we highly recommend www.9marks.org as a resource.

For the specific question of Elders, read the excellent treatment by Mark Dever called "Baptists and Elders" on that website.

Doug Short, Pastor

Our pastor, Doug Short, was raised near Columbia, Maryland.  His coming to Blacksburg, however, is a homecoming of sorts.  His father grew up in Radford and then moved to West Virginia where he met Doug's mom and, after marrying, they made their first home in Blacksburg (they now reside in Boones Mill just South of Roanoke).

Doug received a B.S. in Social Studies Education from the University of Maryland and a M.Div. from Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary in Wake Forest, North Carolina.

In 1997, Doug and his family moved to Middletown, Delaware to start their first church which was well-known for its community involvement.  In 2003, the Shorts relocated to Millsboro, Delaware to begin work on their second church (both of these were a part of the Maryland/Delaware Baptist Convention- SBC) where they had unique ministries to the beach and skateboarding crowds.  The Shorts relocated to the Blacksburg area in April 2007- actually moving on the day of the Virginia Tech. shooting.

Doug has been married to Michelle (who he met in a college Bible study) since 1990 and they have three great kids:  Kailee, Nathaniel, and Benjamin.


Drew Grumbles

Drew first came to Ekklesia as a student at Virginia Tech majoring in Religious Studies.  The son of missionaries in Costa Rica, Drew intended to enter the mission field as well after completing his Bachelor's at Tech and then attending seminary.

As graduation approached and plans for the future needed to be solidified, Pastor Doug approached Drew about the idea of him remaining at Ekklesia during his seminary studies in order that Ekklesia may have the joy of preparing him and sending him out as a missionary.  Drew agreed saying that he had sensed that the Lord desired for him to stay at Ekklesia even before Pastor Doug had made the request.

As Drew began his studies, it became clear that the Lord has his hand on him in a special way.  In many ways, he was a model of what a church leader should be:  eager to teach, hospitable, evangelistic, etc.  Pastor Doug, having prayed for some time for God to raise up another elder from among the congregation asked Drew about his plans for the immediate future.  Drew explained that he no longer felt that the Lord intended to send him and his family (he had gotten married to Helen during his last semester at Tech) onto the mission field themselves, but that God's intention was to keep him at Ekklesia in order to train and equip the missionaries that the church would one day send out and support.  Pastor Doug then asked Drew to pray about becoming an elder.  Drew agreed and, when presented as a candidate before the congregation, was unanimously voted in by a congregation who had grown to love him, his passion for the Gospel, and his passion for the church whom he promised to serve in humility.
