In other words, why do we gather on Sunday mornings in the first place?

Various people may answer in various ways, but to get at the answer we cannot simply take a poll, we have to look to see what the Bible says.

And what we find is Paul speaking to the Christians in Corinth concerning their weekly gathering saying, “So with yourselves, since you are eager for manifestations of the Spirit, strive to excel in building up the church” (1 Cor. 14:12). And again, more explicitly, “What then, brothers? When you come together, each one has a hymn, a lesson, a revelation, a tongue, or an interpretation. Let all things be done for building up” (1 Cor. 14:26).

When we turn to passages that concern corporate singing in Ephesians and Colossians, we see the same thing. Ephesians 5:18-19 says that we are to be filled with the Spirit, “addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart.” And Colossians 3:16-17 says, “Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God.”

In at least these three places, then, Paul argues that one of the primary goals of what we call “corporate worship” is to edify the whole church.

Writing for the ministry 9Marks (9 Marks Blog 11/17/11), Bobby Jamieson reflects on these passages and asks:

"What does this mean for church leaders who are responsible for planning and leading corporate worship?"

We find his answer to be a helpful articulation of the thinking that has driven our approach to Sunday mornings:

"For one, it means that one of the main grids through which you should filter everything in the service is, “Does this edify God’s people?” It’s a question we can use to help ourselves and our members understand what “worship” is.

Say a church member approaches you after the service on Sunday and says, “I really think we should do “x” [insert some cultural or personal preference here] in our church because it will help me to worship.” In response, you can say to both yourself and that person, “Will ‘x’ help to edify God’s people? Because if it doesn’t, it’s not the kind of worship God is looking for.” Certainly this means we should stick to elements of worship that are commanded and exampled in Scripture since such matters promise to edify the body. But it should also help you think through prudential considerations, like whether a particular song is appropriate to sing. One can imagine how a certain song might edify the body in one setting, but be a distraction in another, and so not edify the whole body.

In other words, the priority of edification means that all questions of style and preference are radically subordinate to questions of content. Biblical truth is what edifies. So the first question we should ask of a worship song, for example, is not whether it fits with our or our non-Christian neighbors’ personal musical sensibilities, but whether it faithfully proclaims gospel truths.

Further, the priority of edification bears on how we assess styles and forms as well. For instance, what if certain seemingly outmoded cultural forms—like congregational singing—are actually mandated by Scripture ? (Like in Ephesians 5:18-19 and Colossians 3:16-17!)

Corporate edification is an explicit, New Testament-mandated goal of corporate worship. So give it the pride of place it deserves as you plan and lead your churches’ weekly gatherings. Let all things be done for building up."
